---
layout: post
title: Some time at sea and Key West
---

Over the last couple days, we sailed for quite a bit and did a little stop at our first destination. Here are some things I noticed during our first couple days on the cruise.

* This ship is incredibly large. I know that shouldn't be a surprise, given that we can see how large it is from the outside, but you only really get a sense of its size from actually having to walk from point A to point B on the ship. On the inside, it is the size of the very large hotel. The ceilings are a bit lower than a standard building, however. It's probably from trying to stack up more and more floors on a ship.
* This service is incredibly efficient at entertaining the masses. There are a lot of people on this ship, and the operation needed to feed and entertain them all is quite lean and impressive at working like clockwork.
* The dining system is impressive. It feeds even more people than Yale Dining, serves a larger amount and variety of food, and probably works from a much smaller budget given what people pay for these vacations. Also, this dining service is not immune from market choices, so they put in a halfway decent effort on how good the food tastes. The way it works like clockwork leaves much to be desired from Yale Dining.
* The people here drink. A lot. It's as if an entire spring break resort transferred itself onto a boat. Every time I walk out on the deck, people are always carrying drinks! From how much each cocktail costs, I would easily estimate that people spend as much on their drinks as they do on the cruise itself.
* With this many people drinking this much, it's only probabilistically a matter of time until someone pukes. Yesterday, a person puked in the main dining room, of all places, right by the entrance, during a dinner rush. Turns out that the dining staff didn't like that too much as they tried to do disaster management in blocking off a large line of people trying to enter from stepping in a toxic puddle.

## Key West

Our first destination on this voyage was the southernmost part of the 48, Key West. Since the ship arrived very early in the morning and was slated to leave by lunchtime, we didn't have too much time to explore this island, so we had to pick one destination to visit. We were going to go see Hemingway's house.

When you first leave the ship, you are greeted by a line of tour operators hawking you to buy their $30 get-on-get-off shuttles. What most people don't realize when being presented with these offers is that the Key West tourist/downtown area is a district with a diameter of approximately one mile. $30 for the privilige of being driven around in a kiddie train for a mile. Talk about the cost of laziness.

Fortunately, we were able to find a free shuttle, ironically operated by one of the kiddie-train tour operators, ferrying people off the docks straight to their ticketing office. Turns out that you can't walk straight off the dock and into town because our pier was located in the naval section of port, and they don't allow civilians to walk around in that area.

While riding the shuttle into town, we got the very back seats and a wide view during the ride. The houses were in a 50's island paradise vibe, clearly retaining their character as a tourist destination.

Once in town, we had to walk approximately a mile to get to the Hemingway House and Museum. We bought "discount tickets" at the tour operator's booth (they were a dollar off) and started to walk down the famous Duval street. Turns out that a lot of the touristy ventures do not open at 8 o'clock in the morning.

We got to the house right around opening time, and there already was a line stretching around the block. Guess it's a busy day for tour operators when there are three cruise ships in town.

The first thing you notice about the house is the abundance of cats. Even while we were standing in line, one of the kitties climbed onto the fence and meowed at us. Turns out that the house keeps an entire kitty farm in the back, letting the descendants of Hemingway's cats breed among themselves.

The house is a pleasant structure that Hemingway lived in with his second wife. It was built by a sea captain that also designed ironclads for the Confederacy. The house itself is made out of a unique material-- fossilized coral, dug out of its own foundation. Since fossilized coral is a lot more dense and watertight than the normal coral rock found in the Florida keys, the house also featured what must have been one of the only basements in South Florida.

Next to the house is a lighthouse. Turns out that when the house was first built, the shoreline was on that block. Since, the navy has filled in more and more land and the shoreline has receded to make room for condos and naval bases.

Inside the house are a lot of different memorabilia that originally belonged to the Hemmingways. There are quite a few pictures and various pieces collected during their travels, including a Picasso sculpture of a cat, the original of which was stolen and destroyed.

On the walk back from town, more of the stores on Duval street were open and selling their wares to the tourists. In a lot of the t-shirt shops, I was surprised by how debaucherous and hedonistic a lot of the slogans tried to make the palce look.

Since I had one more hour before going back to the ship, I decided to visit one more museum. I visited the Mel Fischer museum to see the treasures they recovered from a Spanish galleon. The exhibits were fascinatiing in which they showed both what the daily life in the 16-th century Spanish shipping industry as well as the process in which shipwrecks are discovered and their artifacts restored.

Oh, and of course, we had to stop by the 0-mile marker on Route 1. It even passes through near my house back in Connecticut!

Overall, Key West was pleasant. We're off to Mexico tomorrow!