---
layout: post
title: So this is South Florida...
---

I'll be the first to admit that I'm not used to travelling like this. This sort of travel is rather far-removed from my usual approach to the subject, which involves flying to an exotic (usually) Latin American destination with nothing more than a wad of cash and a gudiebook, and seeing where I eventually end up. I've always been a big opponent of packaged vacations and hackeneyed destinations, so it's been a while since I've taken the well-travelled road down to Florida for a quick, fun, family-friendly holiday.

Since it's not an experience I will be taking part on my own and because my parents wanted to try a Carribean cruise for a long time, I was, for a change, looking forward to going on a trip to a place that I deemed rather boring. I'll do my best to chronicle this as I would for any other trip that I take.

## Flying from Hartford to Florida

It always amazes me how much more crowded airport security lines will get the more late you are running. This morning was reminiscent of my flight to Seattle a couple months back, where I ended up missing the flight by mere minutes due to a security line holdup. In the two other times I've flown out of this airport, I was absolutely amazed both times on how quickly I was able to pass through the almost non-existent security line, compared to how the New York City airports appeared to be congested 24/7. I don't know what happened this morning, but even with a thin coat of snow on the ground, the Hartford airport was more packed than I have ever remembered seeing it, in person or on the news. Lines were backed up all the way to the door, and to make things absolutely worse, the security line handlers adpoted a policy of "we move absolutely no one ahead, even if you miss your flight". Even the TSA personnel in La Guardia take pity on you if you are stuck at the back of the security line with a flight that leaves earlier than the flights of the people at the beginning of the line, sheesh.

We ended up booking this flight because my parents were concerned with two factors that I don't usually have to consider. They chose the Hartford/Springfield airport, as opposed to the New York City airports, based on how much cheaper the airport parking was. They decided that we had to fly the specific JetBlue Hartford to Fort Lauderdale route because it was one of the only nonstop routes available. I usually do not choose my flights to be based out of regional (as opposed to hub) airports, nor do I choose deliberately nonstop routes militantly, so I noticed several differences from the routes I've flown in the remote past.

After having flown New York to Seattle and New York to Chicago in the past several months, I was shocked to find myself on a plane full of people all going on holiday. Since my prior flight routes were both business routes, as well as major hub connections, they transported people whose origin and final destinations were most often not the ones of the flight, giving the flight a mood that it was a transit point, just one leg of a larger journey. Let's just say that the mood of the flight this morning was quite different, even with the early morning grogginess and snow making everyone a bit more grumpy than usual.

When we landed in the Fort Lauderdale Airport, I was impressed by how large it was and how networked their infastructure appeared. This airport, being the secondary airport in the Greater Miami area, had turned into the main hub for all of the budget liners that didn't fly into the American-dominated hub of Miami International. While taxing, we saw multitudes of airliners from JetBlue, Southwest, Spirit, and even a plane from Azul, Brazil's budget carrier.

After moving through the baggage claim and finally exiting out onto the real world, I finally realized the sheer size of the airport. In order to access the ground-transportation areas of the airport, one needed to board a shuttle bus to be ferried to either the parking or rental car pickup. Eventually, we had to make our way to the rental car pickup on one of these buses, going on the freeway and doing a large loop, just to get to another part of the airport.

While waiting for the shuttle, I saw some brochures on ground transportation options for people stuck in layovers at this place. Apparently, a service called the "Sun Trolley" ferries people between the airport and downtown hourly during weekends. I'll keep this service in mind if I have to contemplate about Fort Lauderdale as a possible layover spot in the future.

## Lunch in Little Havana

Upon exiting the airport, we headed to Little Havana in Miami, specifically the Versailles restaurant for lunch. I know Versailles is the super-famous one that everyone goes to, but as I found out in the days previous, it is impossible to search for good eats in Little Havana online without running into this name. So many sites I looked in recommended this place, and often solely this place, that it was hard to find other Cuban restaurants on the internet ahead of time with ample reviews.

The restaurant, as the relative internet fame would have you believe it, was packed on a Sunday afternoon. It seemed to be filled with mostly two types of people, Cuban Americans of the area and tourists. I tried to figure out why it was named after a French place that didn't have a very conceivable relation to Cuba or this neighborhood of Cuban Americans, but my best guess was because the insides of the restaurant were lined with mirrors, just as Versailles is.

We tried four different dishes that I thought was safe to try, from the numerous internet reviews that existed of this palce: the ox tail, the roast pork, the classic sampler, and the mahi-mahi with the creole sauce. Actually, the mahi-mahi was what my mother ordered after seeing the person at the next table order it.

The texture on both the ox tail and the pork were tender, while still retaining the chewy character of the meat. The sauce on the mahi-mahi was tangy, and we finished off the meal with their special "flan cubana".

## Alligator Farm

After the lunch, we headed south to Homestead, where our hotel was going to be for the night. Before going to the hotel, however, we decided to visit the Everglades Alligator Farm for the mandatory fix of Everglades gators and airboats that every South Florida trip needs. The park had shows in addition to the animals they kept and the airboat rides they offered. I definitely would have been a lot more interested in the shows if I was a young child, like much of the demograpic at the site today, and if the alligators had not been so lethargic. During the feeding show, the alligators were rather reluctant to jump for pieces of chicken, as they commonly do, and during the snake show, the majority of the time was spent talking about the common varieties of beneficial snakes in America (the corn and king snakes), as well as the importane of not releasing your pet python into the glades.

The airboat ride was really quite something, though. Although it was over a much smaller patch of swamp surrounding the farm, the guide/boat driver deliberately performed several U-turn manuevers that sloshed water all over the boat. I was taken by surprise a couple of the times when the water rushed in, leaving my shoes and socks soaked clean through for the rest of the day. Hey, at least I kept my camera completely dry by keeping it in a plastic bag throughout the ordeal.

On the way back to the hotel after leaving the park, we stopped by a fruit stand called "Robert Is Here". It was clearly being marketed to tourists, with their store of several exotic fruits being sold at a substantial markup for their novelty. The market had a petting zoo in the back (with an emu!) and a smoothie stand in the front, which had a massive line. The atmosphere surround this area gave a pleasant country vibe.

After these explorations, we headed back to our hotel for the end of our first day well spent!
